
See http://www.danger-island.com/~dav/g3dav/ for the latest
information. I'll append the text of this page below also, but
it may not be as up-to-date. 

See INSTALL in this distro for install information

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

g3dav: GNU 3-D Anaglyphic Viewer

3-D for the people 

G3dav is a Linux GTK+ application which will allow you to view and rotate 
3 Dimensional objects using cheap anaglyphic (red-cyan) glasses. This 
application is currently in a usable alpha-state, and I intend to add many
features soon. This is free software and covered by the GNU Public License. 

You may currently load images from a file in Wavefront Object format. There 
is also the beginnings of support for molecular PDB files and 3 value data 
set CSV files. 

Anaglyphic glasses may be found in various places, if anyone dicovers an 
online source for ordering them, please tell me so I may share the info 
here.

Install 

1. Unpack the file with 

   tar xzvf <filename> 
   
   and this will create a ./g3dav directory. 
   
2.Enter this directory and run the typical 

   ./configure; make; make install

This is my first attempt at using ./configure and Makefile.in. Please 
correct me if you see something I am doing wrong. 

Use The basic concept is to don a pair of anaglyphic glasses, load a 3D 
object file and use your mouse to rotate the object. The only object file 
with solid support is Wavefront Object format. A couple of .obj files are
included in the ./g3dav directory and it is trivial to create more. There
is preliminary support for .pdb (molecule) files and .csv (comma 
separated value) files, but this is still under development. The latter 
is intended for data visualization. 

You may need to adjust the red/cyan colors to match your glasses' filters,
or you may need to adjust the default anaglyphic parameters to get the 
best 3-D effect. Menu/Toolbar option are provided for these tasks. 

Support 

Please join the mailing list for support. To join the list send email to

g3dav@danger-island.com 

with the subject of 

subscribe g3dav



Future Directions 

I have a number of planned enhancements g3dav and other ticklish urges. 
Here are a few: 

- Rewrite as a GNOME application and possibly KDE and possibly switch 
  to C++.
- Finish and enhance CSV data visualization 
- Add ability to create and edit OBJ files 
- Add german language support 

- Create a 3D game. Something like battlezone or a 1st person asteroids 
  would be cool. But I'll probably start with a 3D nightdriver. 

History 

G3dav began almost a decade ago when I read a paper published in the 
academic journal "Computers in Physics" which outlined the algorithm 
for 3D anaglyphical transformation. This became a Turbo C++ DOS 
program which simply rendered the results of several chaos functions 
statically on the screen (no user interaction). I'll make this program 
available too, if I ever find the executable or source code again :). 

Next, when Sun's JDK 1.0 came out, I took Sun's example model viewer 
applet and merged it with my anaglyphic code . Sun's applet allowed 
the user to rotate a 3D model as a projection onto the 2D screen, so
now I had user interaction. 

It languished in this manner for many years until recently (end of June 
1999) when I decided I wanted to create a GNOME open source anaglyphic 
tool. 

Contact: email dav@danger-island.com 
                                                                       


